So you want to lean bash scripting right? , COOL! Lets do this! 


> What is a bash scripting? 

  A shell script is a computer program designed to be run by the Unix shell, a command-line interpreter. 
  The various dialects of shell scripts are considered to be scripting languages. 
  Typical operations performed by shell scripts include file manipulation, program execution, and printing text. 
                                     
                                                                                         -wiki 
> Absoulte basics things to note . 

  First of all while writing a bash script do note that you always start off with specifying "SHEBANG" on the top. 

  Eh?! wait. . . . What is SHEBANG? 

   A shebang is the character sequence consisting of the characters number sign and exclamation mark at the beginning of a script. 
   It is also called sha-bang, hashbang, pound-bang, or hash-pling.   
                                                                                         -wiki 

SHEBANG = #!/bin/bash


*Make sure to use SHEBANG on top of every bash script . Its acts like a 
 interpreter for your script . 

*If you want to add comments to your script or a non redable note . You can specify by adding # symbol in the front of your comment . 

 Eg : #This is how you add comments 


> While saving your script .


 When saving your bash script always use the extension ".sh" in the end . 
  
 eg : script.sh  

// How to execute your script . 

 *To execute your script you can go the easy way or the little intermediate way . Whatdo i mean by that? . Well the easy way to do is . .

  by adding "bash" in the front of your script 
  eg : bash script.sh 

  The intermediate way is you need to give executable permission to run the script. 
  then you can execute by adding ./ in the front of your scirpt file name without
  leaving space after the symbol. 
   
   eg : ./script.sh 

   BONUS : To give executble permission type 
           chmod +x scirpt.sh or chmod 700 script.sh 


    Thats all the albsolute basics you need to know when writing a bash script. Now your ready to ROCK ! See you there . 
